# VMIPS-Functional-Timing-Simulator

## Overview

This project is a tool developed for timing analysis of a VMIPS based Vector processor. It consists of both a Functional Simulator and a Timing Simulator to facilitate comprehensive analysis of the processor's behavior.

## Functional Simulator

The Functional Simulator is designed to simulate the functionality of the VMIPS processor. To run the Functional Simulator, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal.
2. Navigate to the directory containing the `ak9327_am12553_funcsimulator.py` file.
3. Run the following command:

```bash
python ak9327_am12553_funcsimulator.py --iodir <path_to_input_output_directory>
```
Replace <path_to_input_output_directory> with the directory containing the input and output files required for simulation. Depending on the specific program being simulated, change the address to either dotproduct or fclayer in the command.

## Timing Simulator

The Timing Simulator utilizes the resolved code generated by the Functional Simulator to perform timing analysis of the VMIPS processor. Follow these steps to use the Timing Simulator:

1. After running the Functional Simulator, the resolved code will be outputted into the resolvedCode.txt file.
2. Copy the resolved code from resolvedCode.txt.
3. Paste the resolved code into the Code.txt file.
4. Configure the parameters in the config.txt file according to the specifications of the simulation.
5. Open a terminal.
6. Navigate to the directory containing the main.py script.
7. Run the following command:

```bash
python main.py
```

## Credits
This project was developed by Anish Miryala and Amuktha Kotamarthy as part of their work at New York University.

Thank you for using VMIPS-Functional-Timing-Simulator!
